art deco, sometimes referred to as deco, is a style of visual arts, architecture and design that first appeared in france just before world war i.[1] it influenced the design of buildings, furniture, jewelry, fashion, cars, movie theatres, trains, ocean liners, and everyday objects such as radios and vacuum cleaners.[2] it took its name, short for arts décoratifs, from the exposition internationale des arts décoratifs et industriels modernes (international exhibition of modern decorative and industrial arts) held in paris in 1925.[3]it combined modern styles with fine craftsmanship and rich materials. during its heyday, it represented luxury, glamour, exuberance, and faith in social and technological progress.from its outset, art deco was influenced by the bold geometric forms of cubism and the vienna secession; the bright colours of fauvism and of the ballets russes; the updated craftsmanship of the furniture of the eras of louis philippe i and louis xvi; and the exoticized styles of china and japan, india, persia, ancient egypt and maya art. it featured rare and expensive materials, such as ebony and ivory, and exquisite craftsmanship. the empire state building, chrysler building, and other skyscrapers of new york city built during the 1920s and 1930s are monuments of the style. in the 1930s, during the great depression, art deco became more subdued. new materials arrived, including chrome plating, stainless steel and plastic. a sleeker form of the style, called streamline moderne, appeared in the 1930s, featuring curving forms and smooth, polished surfaces.[4] art deco is one of the first truly international styles, but its dominance ended with the beginning of world war ii and the rise of the strictly functional and unadorned styles of modern architecture and the international style of architecture that followed.[5] the great depression was a severe worldwide economic depression that took place mostly during the 1930s, beginning in the united states. the timing of the great depression varied around the world; in most countries, it started in 1929 and lasted until the late 1930s.[1] it was the longest, deepest, and most widespread depression of the 20th century.[2] the great depression is commonly used as an example of how intensely the global economy can decline.[3] world war ii or the second world war, often abbreviated as wwii or ww2, was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945. it involved the vast majority of the world's countries  including all of the great powers forming two opposing military alliances: the allies and the axis powers. in a total war directly involving more than 100 million personnel from more than 30 countries, the major participants threw their entire economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities behind the war effort, blurring the distinction between civilian and military resources. fauvism  is the style of les fauves a group of early 20th-century modern artists whose works emphasized painterly qualities and strong color over the representational or realistic values retained by impressionism. while fauvism as a style began around 1904 and continued beyond 1910, the movement as such lasted only a few years, , and had three exhibitions. the leaders of the movement were andré derain and henri matisse.the ballets russes was an itinerant ballet company begun in paris that performed between 1909 and 1929 throughout europe and on tours to north and south america. the company never performed in russia, where the revolution disrupted society. after its initial paris season, the company had no formal ties there.[1]@summaryart deco, sometimes referred to as deco, is a style of visual arts, architecture and design that first appeared in france just before world war i. it represented luxury, glamour, exuberance, and faith in social and technological progress. the empire state building, chrysler building, and other skyscrapers of new york city built during the 1920s and 1930s. art deco was influenced by the bold geometric forms of cubism and the vienna secession; the bright colours of fauvism and of the ballets russes. Fauvism is the style of les fauves a group of early 20th - century modern artists. they were andre derain and henri matisse at the time of the movement. the movement had three exhibitions in 1904 and had a three exhibitions. the group was the first of the 20th century modern painters in the world. the ballets russes was an itinerant ballet company begun in paris that performed between 1909 and 1929 throughout europe and on tours to north and south america. the company never performed in russia, where the revolution disrupted society. after its initial paris season, the company had no formal ties there. art deco is one of the first truly international styles, but its dominance ended with the beginning of world war ii. the great depression was the longest, deepest, and most widespread depression of the 20th century. it took place mostly during the 1930s and lasted until the late 1930s. in a total war directly involving more than 100 million personnel from more than 30 countries, the major participants threw their entire economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities behind the war effort.