the baroque  is a style of architecture, music, dance, painting, sculpture, and other arts that flourished in europe from the early 17th century until the 1740s. in the territories of the spanish and portuguese empires including the iberian peninsula it continued, together with new styles, until the first decade of the 19th century. it followed renaissance art and mannerism and preceded the rococo (in the past often referred to as late baroque) and neoclassical styles. it was encouraged by the catholic church as a means to counter the simplicity and austerity of protestant architecture, art, and music, though lutheran baroque art developed in parts of europe as well.[1] the baroque style used contrast, movement, exuberant detail, deep colour, grandeur, and surprise to achieve a sense of awe. the style began at the start of the 17th century in rome, then spread rapidly to france, northern italy, spain, and portugal, then to austria, southern germany, and russia. by the 1730s, it had evolved into an even more flamboyant style, called rocaille or rococo, which appeared in france and central europe until the mid to late 18th century.in the decorative arts, the style employs plentiful and intricate ornamentation. the departure from renaissance classicism has its own ways in each country. but a general feature is that everywhere the starting point is the ornamental elements introduced by the renaissance. the classical repertoire is crowded, dense, overlapping, loaded, in order to provoke shock effects. new motifs introduced by baroque are: the cartouche, trophies and weapons, baskets of fruit or flowers, and others, made in marquetry, stucco, or carved.rococo  less commonly roccoco or late baroque, is an exceptionally ornamental and theatrical style of architecture, art and decoration which combines asymmetry, scrolling curves, gilding, white and pastel colors, sculpted molding, frescoes to create surprise and the illusion of motion and drama. it is often described as the final expression of the baroque movement.the rococo style began in france in the 1730s as a reaction against the more formal and geometric louis xiv style. it was known as the style rocaille, or rocaille style.[2] it soon spread to other parts of europe, particularly northern italy, austria, southern germany, central europe and russia.[3] it also came to influence the other arts, particularly sculpture, furniture, silverware, glassware, painting, music, and theatre.[4] although originally a secular style primarily used for interiors of private residences the rococo had a spiritual aspect to it which led to its widespread use in church interiors, particularly in central europe, portugal, and south america.[5]the decorative arts are arts or crafts whose object is the design and manufacture of objects that are both beautiful and functional. it includes most of the arts making objects for the interiors of buildings, and interior design, but not usually architecture. ceramic art, metalwork, furniture, jewellery, fashion, various forms of the textile arts and glassware are major groupings.applied arts largely overlaps with decorative arts, and the modern making of applied art is usually called design. the decorative arts are often categorized in distinction to the fine arts, namely painting, drawing, photography, and large-scale sculpture, which generally produce objects solely for their aesthetic quality and capacity to stimulate the intellect.@summarythe baroque style began at the start of the 17th century in rome. it followed renaissance art and mannerism and preceded the rococo. the renaissance style used contrast, movement, exuberant detail, deep colour, grandeur, and surprise to achieve a sense of awe. in the decorative arts, the style has its own ways in each country. rococo style began in france in the 1700s as a reaction against the more formal and geometric louis xiv style. it came to influence the other arts, particularly sculpture, furniture, silverware, glassware, painting, music, and theatre. the rocaille was known as the style rocitatingle. the decorative arts are often categorized in distinction to the fine arts, including painting, drawing, photography and large - scale sculpture. applied arts largely overlaps with decorative arts, and the modern making of applied art is usually called design. it includes most of the arts making objects for the interiors of buildings, and interior design.