dante alighieri , probably baptized durante di alighiero degli alighieri[note 1] and often referred to simply as dante, was an italian[a] poet, writer and philosopher.[6] his divine comedy, originally called comedìa (modern italian: commedia) and later christened divina by giovanni boccaccio,[7] is widely considered one of the most important poems of the middle ages and the greatest literary work in the italian language.[8][9]dante is known for establishing the use of the vernacular in literature at a time when most poetry was written in latin, which was accessible only to the most educated readers. his de vulgari eloquentia (on eloquence in the vernacular) was one of the first scholarly defenses of the vernacular. his use of the tuscan dialect for works such as the new life (1295) and divine comedy helped establish the modern-day standardized italian language. his work set a precedent that important italian writers such as petrarch and boccaccio would later follow.dante was instrumental in establishing the literature of italy. his depictions of hell, purgatory and heaven provided inspiration for the larger body of western art and literature.[10][11] he is cited as an influence on such english writers as geoffrey chaucer, john milton and alfred tennyson, among many others. in addition, the first use of the interlocking three-line rhyme scheme, or the terza rima, is attributed to him. he is described as the father of the italian language,[12] and in italy he is often referred to as il sommo poeta (the supreme poet). dante, petrarch, and boccaccio are also called the tre corone (three crowns) of italian literature.latin  is a classical language belonging to the italic branch of the indo-european languages. latin was originally a dialect spoken in the lower tiber area around present-day rome (then known as latium),[2] and through the power of the roman republic, became the dominant language in italia and subsequently throughout the realms of roman empire. even after the fall of western rome, latin was the common language of international communication, science, scholarship and academia in europe until well into the 18th century, when other regional vernaculars (including its own descendants, the romance languages) supplanted it in common academic and political usage, and it eventually became a dead language in the modern linguistic definition.the roman empire  was the post-republican period of ancient rome. as a polity it included large territorial holdings around the mediterranean sea in europe, northern africa, and western asia ruled by emperors. from the accession of caesar augustus to the military anarchy of the 3rd century, it was a principate with italy as metropole of the provinces and the city of rome as sole capital . after the military crisis, the empire was ruled by multiple emperors who shared rule over the western roman empire and over the eastern roman empire. rome remained the nominal capital of both parts until ad 476, when the imperial insignia were sent to constantinople, following the capture of the western capital ravenna by the barbarians of odoacer and the subsequent deposition of romulus augustulus. the adoption of christianity as the state church of the roman empire in ad 380 and the fall of the western roman empire to germanic kings conventionally marks the end of classical antiquity and the beginning of the middle ages. because of those events, along with the gradual hellenization of the eastern roman empire, historians distinguish the medieval roman empire that remained in the eastern provinces as the byzantine empire.romulus augustus , nicknamed augustulus, was a child roman emperor of the west from 31 october 475 until 4 september 476. romulus was placed on the imperial throne by his father, the magister militum orestes, and, at that time, still a minor, was little more than a figurehead for his father. after romulus ruled for just ten months, the barbarian general odoacer defeated and killed orestes and deposed romulus. as odoacer did not proclaim any successor, romulus is typically regarded as the last western roman emperor, his deposition marking the end of the western roman empire as a political entity. the deposition of romulus augustulus is also sometimes used by historians to mark the transition from antiquity to the medieval period.@summarydante alighiero degli alighieri is known for establishing the use of the vernacular in literature at a time when most poetry was written in latin. his work set a precedent that important italian writers such as petrarch and boccaccio would later follow. dante was instrumental in establishing the modern - day standardized italian language. latin was the dominant language of international communication, science, scholarship and academia in europe until well into the 18th century. latin became dominant language in italia and later throughout the realms of roman empire. in the modern linguistic definition, it became a dead language in the roman republic, when other regional vernaculars ( including its own descendants ). Roman Empire as a polity it included large territorial holdings around the mediterranean sea in europe, northern africa, and western asia ruled by emperors. the imperial insignia were sent to constantinople, following the capture of the western capital ravenna by the barbarians of odoacer and the subsequent deposition of romulus augustulus. romulus augustus, nicknamed augustulus, was a child roman emperor of the west from 31 october 475 until 4 september 476. he was placed on the imperial throne by his father, the magister militum orestes, and was little more than a figurehead for his father. as odoacer did not proclaim any successor, romulus is typically regarded as the last western roman emperor.