the international style or internationalism[1] is a major architectural style that was developed in the 1920s and 1930s and was closely related to modernism and modern architecture. it was first defined by museum of modern art curators henry-russell hitchcock and philip johnson in 1932, based on works of architecture from the 1920s. the terms rationalist architecture and modern movement are often used interchangeably with international style,[1][2][3][4] although the former is mostly used in the english-speaking world to specifically refer to the italian rationalism of architects such as giuseppe terragni and gino pollini,[5] or even the international style that developed in europe as a whole.[6]it is defined by the getty research institute as the style of architecture that emerged in holland, france, and germany after world war i and spread throughout the world, becoming the dominant architectural style until the 1970s. the style is characterized by an emphasis on volume over mass, the use of lightweight, mass-produced, industrial materials, rejection of all ornament and colour, repetitive modular forms, and the use of flat surfaces, typically alternating with areas of glass.[7]the getty research institute (gri), located at the getty center in los angeles, california, is dedicated to furthering knowledge and advancing understanding of the visual arts.[1] a program of the j. paul getty trust, gri maintains a research library, organizes exhibitions and other events, sponsors a residential scholars program, publishes books, and produces electronic databases (getty publications).[1]giuseppe terragni was an italian architect who worked primarily under the fascist regime of benito mussolini and pioneered the italian modern movement under the rubric of rationalism.[1] his most famous work is the casa del fascio built in como, northern italy, which was begun in 1932 and completed in 1936;[1] it was built in accordance with the international style of architecture and frescoed by abstract artist mario radice. in 1938, at the behest of mussolini's fascist government, terragni designed the danteum, an unbuilt monument to the italian poet dante alighieri structured around the formal divisions of his greatest work, the divine comedy.[2]@summarythe terms rationalist architecture and modern movement are often used interchangeably with international style. it is defined by the getty research institute as the style of architecture that emerged in holland, france, and germany after world war i. and spread throughout the world, becoming the dominant architectural style until the 1970s. the getty research institute is dedicated to furthering knowledge and advancing understanding of the visual arts. gri, a program of the j. paul getty trust, organizes exhibitions and other events, sponsors a residential scholars program. the research institute, founded in los angeles, california, is a program that focuses on learning of visual arts, promotes understanding of visual art. giuseppe terragni and gino pollini are  architects of  italian rationalism. giuseppe terragni designed the danteum, an unbuilt monument to the italian poet dante alighieri. in 1938, the casa del fascio built in como, northern italy, was completed in 1932 and completed in 1936. the italian architect worked primarily under the fascist regime of benito mussolini.