les miserables, colloquially known as les mis or les miz , is a sung-through musical and an adaptation of victor hugo's 1862 novel of the same name, by claude-michel schönberg (music), alain boublil and jean-marc natel (original french lyrics), and herbert kretzmer (english lyrics). the original french musical premiered in paris in 1980 with direction by robert hossein. its english-language adaptation by producer cameron mackintosh has been running in london since october 1985, making it the longest-running musical in the west end and the second longest-running musical in the world after the original off-broadway run of the fantasticks.set in early 19th-century france, les misérables is the story of jean valjean, a french peasant, and his desire for redemption, released in 1815 after serving nineteen years in jail for stealing a loaf of bread for his sister's starving child. valjean decides to break his parole and start his life anew after a bishop inspires him with a tremendous act of mercy, but a police inspector named javert refuses to let him escape justice and pursues him for most of the play. along the way, valjean and a slew of characters are swept into a revolutionary period in france, where a group of young idealists attempt to overthrow the government at a street barricade in paris.victor-marie hugo was a french poet, novelist, essayist, playwright, and dramatist of the romantic movement. during a literary career that spanned more than sixty years, he wrote abundantly in an exceptional variety of genres: lyrics, satires, epics, philosophical poems, epigrams, novels, history, critical essays, political speeches, funeral orations, diaries, and letters public and private, as well as dramas in verse and prose.hugo is considered to be one of the greatest and best-known french writers. outside france, his most famous works are the novels les misérables, 1862, and the hunchback of notre-dame (french: notre-dame de paris), 1831. in france, hugo is renowned for his poetry collections, such as les contemplations (the contemplations) and la légende des siècles (the legend of the ages). hugo was at the forefront of the romantic literary movement with his play cromwell and drama hernani. many of his works have inspired music, both during his lifetime and after his death, including the musicals les misérables and notre-dame de paris. he produced more than 4,000 drawings in his lifetime, and campaigned for social causes such as the abolition of capital punishment.notre-dame de paris is a sung-through french musical which debuted on 16 september 1998 in paris. it is based upon the novel notre-dame de paris (the hunchback of notre-dame) by the french novelist victor hugo. the music was composed by riccardo cocciante (also known as richard cocciante) and the lyrics are by luc plamondon.since its debut, it has been professionally played in belgium, canada, china, france, italy, japan, lebanon, luxembourg, poland, russia, singapore, south korea, spain, switzerland, turkey, united kingdom and united states, and has been translated into eight languages (english, spanish, italian, russian, korean, flemish, polish, and kazakh). a shorter version in english was performed in 2000 in las vegas, nevada (united states) and a full-length london production, also in english, ran for seventeen months. several songs from the show, such as vivre, belle and le temps des cathédrales, have been released as singles with a huge success in french speaking countries.@summaryles misérables, colloquially known as les mis or les miz , is a sung-through musical and an adaptation of victor hugo's 1862 novel of the same name, by claude-michel schönberg (music), alain boublil and jean-marc natel (original french lyrics), and herbert kretzmer (english lyrics).the original french musical premiered in paris in 1980 with direction by robert hossein. the original version of victor hugo's 1862 novel of the same name was by claude - michel schonberg. valjean and a slew of characters are swept into a revolutionary period in france.victor - marie hugo was one of the greatest and best - known french writers. he wrote abundantly in an exceptional variety of genres. he produced more than 4, 000 drawings in his lifetime and campaigned for social causes such as the abolition of capital punishment. hugo is renowned for his poetry collections, including les miserables and notre - dame de paris. notre-dame de paris is a sung-through french musical which debuted on 16 september 1998 in paris. the song is based upon the novel notre - dame de paris. it has been professionally played in belgium, canada, china, france and switzerland. the lyrics are by luc plamondon, and the lyrics were written by riccardo cocciante. the musical was performed in 2000 in las vegas, nevada, nevada and the united states.