operation uranus  was the codename of the soviet red army's 1923 november 1942 strategic operation on the eastern front of world war ii which led to the encirclement of axis forces in the vicinity of stalingrad: the german sixth army, the third and fourth romanian armies, and portions of the german fourth panzer army. the red army carried out the operation at roughly the midpoint of the five-month long battle of stalingrad, aiming to destroy german forces in and around stalingrad. planning for operation uranus had commenced in september 1942, and developed simultaneously with plans to envelop and destroy german army group center (operation mars) and german forces in the caucasus. the red army took advantage of the german army's poor preparations for winter, and the fact that its forces in the southern soviet union were overstretched near stalingrad, using weaker romanian troops to guard their flanks; the offensive's starting points were established along the section of the front directly opposite romanian forces. these axis armies lacked heavy equipment to deal with soviet armor.the workers' and peasants' red army,[a] frequently shortened to red army,[b] was the army and air force of the russian soviet federative socialist republic and, after 1922, the union of soviet socialist republics. the army was established in january 1918. the bolsheviks raised an army to oppose the military confederations (especially the various groups collectively known as the white army) of their adversaries during the russian civil war. beginning in february 1946, the red army, along with the soviet navy, embodied the main component of the soviet armed forces; taking the official name of soviet army, until its dissolution in 1991.the red army provided the largest land force in the allied victory in the european theatre of world war ii, and its invasion of manchuria assisted the unconditional surrender of imperial japan. during operations on the eastern front, it accounted for 75–80% of casualties the wehrmacht and waffen-ss suffered during the war and ultimately captured the nazi german capital, berlin.[1]nazi germany,[h] officially known as the german reich[i] from 1933 until 1943, and the greater german reich[j] from 1943 to 1945, was the german state between 1933 and 1945, when adolf hitler and the nazi party controlled the country, transforming it into a dictatorship. under hitler's rule, germany quickly became a totalitarian state where nearly all aspects of life were controlled by the government. the third reich,[k] meaning third realm or third empire, alluded to the nazis' conceit that nazi germany was the successor to the earlier holy roman empire (800’1806) and german empire (1871’1918). the third reich, which hitler and the nazis referred to as the thousand year reich,[l] ended in may 1945 after just 12 years, when the allies defeated germany, ending world war ii in europe.@summaryoperation uranus  was the codename of the soviet red army's 1923 november 1942 strategic operation on the eastern front of world war ii which led to the encirclement of axis forces in the vicinity of Stalingrad.the red army carried out the operation at roughly the midpoint of the five - month long battle of stalingrad. it took advantage of the german army's poor preparations for winter, and the offensive's starting points were established along the section of the front directly opposite romanian forces. the red army was established in january 1918. the army provided the largest land force in the allied victory in the european theatre of world war ii. It accounted for 75 – 80 % of casualties the wehrmacht and waffen - ss suffered during the war and ultimately captured the nazi german capital berlin. the third reich, [ k ] meaning third realm or third empire, alluded to the nazis'conceit that nazi germany was the successor to the earlier holy roman empire ( 800 ’ 1806 ) and german empire  ended in may 1945 after just 12 years.