romantic music is a stylistic movement in western classical music associated with the period of the 19th century commonly referred to as the romantic era (or romantic period). it is closely related to the broader concept of romanticism “the intellectual, artistic and literary movement that became prominent in europe from approximately 1798 until 1837. [1]romantic composers sought to create music that was individualistic, emotional, dramatic and often programmatic; reflecting broader trends within the movements of romantic literature, poetry, art, and philosophy. romantic music was often ostensibly inspired by (or else sought to evoke) non-musical stimuli, such as nature, literature, poetry, super-natural elements or the fine arts. it included features such as increased chromaticism and moved away from traditional forms.[2]chromaticism is a compositional technique interspersing the primary diatonic pitches and chords with other pitches of the chromatic scale. chromaticism is in contrast or addition to tonality or diatonicism and modality (the major and minor, or white key, scales). chromatic elements are considered, elaborations of or substitutions for diatonic scale members.[2]musical composition can refer to an original piece or work of music,[1] either vocal or instrumental, the structure of a musical piece or to the process of creating or writing a new piece of music. people who create new compositions are called composers. composers of primarily songs are usually called songwriters;[2][3] with songs, the person who writes lyrics for a song is the lyricist. in many cultures, including western classical music, the act of composing typically includes the creation of music notation, such as a sheet music score, which is then performed by the composer or by other musicians. in popular music and traditional music, songwriting may involve the creation of a basic outline of the song, called the lead sheet, which sets out the melody, lyrics and chord progression. in classical music, orchestration (choosing the instruments of a large music ensemble such as an orchestra which will play the different parts of music, such as the melody, accompaniment, countermelody, bassline and so on) is typically done by the composer, but in musical theatre and in pop music, songwriters may hire an arranger to do the orchestration. in some cases, a pop or traditional songwriter may not use written notation at all and instead compose the song in their mind and then play, sing or record it from memory. in jazz and popular music, notable sound recordings by influential performers are given the weight that written or printed scores play in classical music.although a musical composition often uses musical notation and has a single author, this is not always the case. a work of music can have multiple composers, which often occurs in popular music when all members of a band collaborate to write a song or in musical theatre, when one person writes the melodies, a second person writes the lyrics and a third person orchestrates the songs.@summaryromantic music is closely related to the broader concept of romanticism ” ” the intellectual, artistic and literary movement that became prominent in europe from around 1798 until 1837. it included features such as increased chromaticism and moved away from traditional forms. romantic music was often inspired by ( or else sought to evoke or evoke ) non - musical stimuli.chromaticism is a compositional technique interspersing the primary diatonic pitches and chords with other pitches. chromatic elements are considered, elaborations of or substitutions for diatonic scale members. l. a. et. etality ( the major and minor, or white key, scales )in many cultures, including western classical music, the act of composing typically includes the creation of music notation, such as a sheet music score, then performed by the composer or by other musicians. in some cases, a pop or traditional songwriter may not use written notation at all and instead compose the song in their mind and then play, sing or record it from memory.