sheet music is a handwritten or printed form of musical notation that uses musical symbols to indicate the pitches, rhythms, or chords of a song or instrumental musical piece. like its analogs  printed books or pamphlets in english, arabic, or other languages  the medium of sheet music typically is paper (or, in earlier centuries, papyrus or parchment). although the access to musical notation since the 1980s has included the presentation of musical notation on computer screens and the development of scorewriter computer programs that can notate a song or piece electronically, and, in some cases, play back the notated music using a synthesizer or virtual instruments.the use of the term sheet is intended to differentiate written or printed forms of music from sound recordings (on vinyl record, cassette, cd), radio or tv broadcasts or recorded live performances, which may capture film or video footage of the performance as well as the audio component. in everyday use, sheet music (or simply music) can refer to the print publication of commercial sheet music in conjunction with the release of a new film, tv show, record album, or other special or popular event which involves music. the first printed sheet music made with a printing press was made in 1473.sheet music is the basic form in which western classical music is notated so that it can be learned and performed by solo singers or instrumentalists or musical ensembles. many forms of traditional and popular western music are commonly learned by singers and musicians by ear, rather than by using sheet music (although in many cases, traditional and pop music may also be available in sheet music form).the term score is a common alternative (and more generic) term for sheet music, and there are several types of scores, as discussed below. the term score can also refer to theatre music, orchestral music or songs written for a play, musical, opera or ballet, or to music or songs written for a television programme or film; for the last of these, see film score.music notation or musical notation is any system used to visually represent aurally perceived music played with instruments or sung by the human voice through the use of written, printed, or otherwise-produced symbols, including notation for durations of absence of sound such as rests.types and methods of notation have varied between cultures and throughout history, and much information about ancient music notation is fragmentary. even in the same time period, such as in the 2010s, different styles of music and different cultures use different music notation methods; for example, for professional classical music performers, sheet music using staves and noteheads is the most common way of notating music, but for professional country music session musicians, the nashville number system is the main method.@summarysheet music is a handwritten or printed form of musical notation on computer screens. the term score can refer to the print publication of commercial sheet music in conjunction with the release of a new film, tv show, record album, or other special or popular event which involves music. in some cases, traditional and pop music may be available in sheet music form. the nashville number system is the main method of notating music, but for professional music musicians, nashville number is the most common way of performing music. music notation is not used to visually represent aurally perceived music played with instruments or sung by the human voice through the use of written, printed, or otherwise - produced symbols.